---
title: Advanced options
description: Advanced options
---

# Advanced options

## Advanced options configuration

Advanced options are configured on the ADVANCED OPTIONS section.

Advanced options are related to customizing the behavior for setting the target RDN and DN, the order for rules processing, reusing identity linkage across rules, and logging certain aspects of the rules like variable values and transformed XML messages.

## Target Object RDN

The RDN used to comprise the target DN is automatically selected based on a required attribute of the `objectclass` associated with the target entries.

If you need to change the attribute that comprises the target RDN, select the attribute from the **Target Object RDN** drop-down list.

## Target DN generation

The target DN can be generated automatically or manually. If the **Automatic** option is selected, the target DN is generated by default based on the virtual view created for the target and where it is mounted in the RadiantOne namespace. This works well if you are working with a target naming context that is relatively flat and all objects you are synchronizing are in the same container. If this is not the case, and you need to sync entries into various containers/branches in the target, then choose the **Manual** option. If the **Manual** option is selected, you have a Target DN setting in your Rule where you can select the variable that contains the logic for how the target DN is to be generated. If the **Automatic** option is selected, you do not have this setting for your rules.

## Rules processing

The default behavior is to evaluate all rules that are configured in the order in which they are defined. If your synchronization needs dictate that once the actions associated with one rule are executed, no other rules need to be evaluated, choose the option to **Stop** processing other rules as soon as one rule's conditions match and select **OK**.

## Sync identity linkage across rules

The identity linkage is the criteria that uniquely links a source identity to a target identity. This linkage may be based on a variable (source attribute or local variable), or a combination of information computed with a function. If you want the same identity linkage logic for all rules, check the **Sync Identity Linkage across rules** option. If this is selected, once the identity linkage is defined for one rule, all other rules are based on the same logic. If this is unchecked, each rule can have different identity linkage criteria.

## Log Rule Variables

To assist with troubleshooting, it can be helpful to log the local variables. Check the Log Rule Variables option to have the variables logged in: `\vds_server\logs\sync_engine\sync_engine.log` on the RadiantOne node where the sync engine processor that is assigned for the pipeline is running. If RadiantOne is deployed in a cluster, a sync engine processor can be running on one or more nodes and the pipeline processing is distributed across them. Use the Global Sync tab to download the corresponding sync_engine.log file by selecting the topology and selecting **Configure** next to the pipeline. Select the **Apply** component and in the Log Viewer section, select  **Download**.

## Log transformed XML messages

To assist with troubleshooting, it can be helpful to log the transformed XML Message. Check the Log transformed XML messages option to have the message logged in:

`\vds_server\logs\sync_engine\sync_engine.log` on the RadiantOne node where the sync engine processor that is assigned for the pipeline is running. If RadiantOne is deployed in a cluster, a sync engine processor can be running on one or more nodes and the pipeline processing is distributed across them. Use the Global Sync tab to download the corresponding sync_engine.log file by selecting the topology and selecting **Configure** next to the pipeline. Select the **Apply** component and in the **Log Viewer** section, select **Download**. You can also view and download the sync_enginer.log from Environment Operations Center.
