---
title: Optimize Views
description: Learn about options to optimize identity views.
---

## Overview

This is the overview.

## Views from Database Backends

For certain configurations/use cases, there are two parameters that may be enabled to improve processing/performance. They are located on the Main Control Panel > Directory Namespace Tab. Navigate below the Root Naming Context section and select the node representing the virtual view to your backend. On the right side, select the Advanced Settings tab. Each optimization is described below.

**Removing UPPER**

Since some databases are case sensitive, RadiantOne transforms primary key attribute values to upper case when generating the where clause. This is only applicable when the database key is a character data type. “UPPER” is generated automatically for the following databases: Oracle, SQL MX, Sybase, Interbase, and DB2. If you do not want UPPER to be used (because your database is NOT case sensitive), you can use the Base Search and Update parameters on the Advanced Settings tab section to remove it. 

The Base Search parameter allows you to remove UPPER (that is generated by default) for base searches. If your database is not case sensitive, then the UPPER can be removed. If your database is case sensitive, then you must make sure that the attribute that is indexed (and is used in the base parameter) uses the UPPER case. Otherwise, performance of the virtual view (during a base search) is unpredictable.

>[!warning] 
>Using the UPPER can slow down performance because the indexes in the database may not be used. IF your database has an index on an attribute and it stores the value in upper case, then you have the option of removing the UPPER generated on the left side of the parameter (it is the UPPER on the left that is most costly in terms of performance).

Below is an example of the Base Search filter that is generated for a database. If the database is case sensitive and the CN attribute is indexed (and the index stores the value in upper case), then the UPPER generated on the left side of the “=” can be removed and performance is improved (also remove the leading and ending parentheses).

The following example:

```
(UPPER(SCOTT.PEOPLE.CN)=UPPER(@@[cn : VARCHAR2(60)]))
```

Would become:

```
(SCOTT.PEOPLE.CN=UPPER(@@[cn : VARCHAR2(60)]))
```

If you are not able to remove the UPPER then you should consider using cache at the level of RadiantOne in order to improve performance. RadiantOne queries the database the first time (the UPPER is used), the results are cached and future queries receive the information from cache.

The Update parameter allows you to remove UPPER (that is generated by default) for updates to the database. The UPPER is generated when the primary key of the database object is a character data type. The UPPER is used to generate the where clause based on the primary key to locate the entry to update. If your database is not case sensitive, then you can remove the UPPER that is generated in the update parameter and the performance of the query is improved.

**Request Binary/BLOB Attributes Only When Necessary**

Requesting BLOB attributes can significantly decrease performance. When this option is enabled, RadiantOne requests binary/BLOB attributes from the backend only if they are specifically requested by the client. 

Use caution when enabling this parameter if an interception script is defined (which may need such attributes even if they are not requested by the client).

>[!warning] 
>Do not enable this option if a memory entry cache is used (as the whole virtual entry is needed, including the BLOBs).

**Process Joins and Computed Attributes Only When Necessary**

The default behavior of RadiantOne is to process associated joins and build computed attributes whenever a virtual object is reached from a query regardless of whether the attributes requested come from a secondary source or computation.

If you enable this option, RadiantOne does not perform joins or computations if a client requests or searches for attributes from a primary object only. If a client requests or searches for attributes from secondary objects or computed attributes, then RadiantOne processes the join(s) and computations accordingly. 

Use caution when enabling this option if you have interception scripts defined on these objects, or access controls based on filters are being used (both of which may require other attributes returned from secondary sources or computations regardless of whether or not the client requested or searched for them). 

>[!warning] 
>Do not enable this option if a memory entry cache is used (as the whole virtual entry is needed for the cache). 

## Views from LDAP Backends

**Limit Attributes Requested from the LDAP Backend**

Whenever RadiantOne queries a backend LDAP, the default behavior is to ask for all attributes (although ONLY the attributes requested in the query are returned to the client). This default behavior of RadiantOne is for the following reasons:

-	Joins have been configured and the filter in the search request involves attributes from both the primary and secondary sources (i.e. the query filter contains conditions on both primary and secondary objects). 

-	Interception scripts that involve logic based on attributes from the backend. These attributes may not be specifically requested or searched for by the client. However, RadiantOne must retrieve them from the backend in order for the script logic to be valid.

-	ACL checking. You can setup ACLs on attribute/values of an entry (i.e. mystatus=hidden), so RadiantOne may need the whole entry to check the authorization.

-	For entry caching. The entire entry needs to be in the entry cache.

    If your virtual view does not require any of the conditions mentioned above, you can enable this option for better performance. If this option is enabled, RadiantOne queries the backend server only for attributes requested from the client in addition to attributes set as 'Always Requested' on the Attributes tab.

**Process Joins and Computed Attributes only when necessary**

The default behavior of RadiantOne is to process associated joins and build computed attributes whenever a virtual object is reached from a query regardless of whether the attributes requested come from a secondary source or computation. 

If you enable this option, RadiantOne does not perform joins or computations if a client requests or searches for attributes from a primary object only. If a client requests or searches for attributes from secondary objects or computed attributes, then RadiantOne processes the join(s) and computations accordingly. For more details on this behavior, please see the Join Behavior Diagram in the [RadiantOne System Administration Guide](/sys-admin-guide/01-introduction).

Use caution when enabling this option if you have interception scripts defined on these objects, or access controls based on filters are being used (both of which may require other attributes returned from secondary sources or computations regardless of whether the client requested or searched for them).

>[!warning] Do not enable this option if a memory entry cache is used (as the whole virtual entry is needed for the cache).

**Use Client Sizelimit Value to Query Backend**

Whenever RadiantOne queries a backend LDAP, the default behavior is to ask for all entries (sizelimit=0) even if the client to RadiantOne indicates a size limit. 
This default behavior is because the entries returned by the backend are possible candidates, but may not be retained for the final result that is sent to the client. For example, if an ACL has been defined in RadiantOne, not all entries from the backend may be authorized for the user (connected to RadiantOne) to access. Other cases are when joins or interception scripts are involved with the virtual view, these may also alter the entries that match the client’s search. 

To limit the number of entries from the backend, using paging is the recommended approach. If the backend supports paging, RadiantOne does not get all the results at once, only one page at a time (pagesize indicated in the configuration). In this case, if RadiantOne has returned the sizelimit required to the client, it does not go to the next page.

If your virtual view does not require any of the conditions mentioned above (joins, interceptions, ACL), and using paging between RadiantOne and the backend is not possible, you can enable this option to limit the number of entries requested from the backend. If this option is enabled, RadiantOne uses the sizelimit specified by the client instead of using sizelimit=0 when querying the backend.


## Views from Custom Backends
